I have started preparing for the cloud practitioner exam-CLF-02
We will cover over 40 AWS services(out of the 200+ in AWS)

AWS Global Infrastructure
  AWS Regions
  AWS Availability Zones
  AWS Data Centers
  AWS Edge Locations/Points of Presence
https://infrastructure.aws/

AWS Regions
    AWS has Regions all around the world
    Names can be us-east-1, eu-west-3...
    A region is a cluster of data centers in a specific geographical area
    Most AWS services are region-scoped


    Notes:
    Region means:
    A region is a geographical area that contains multiple Availability Zones
    A region is a physical location in the world where we have multiple Availability Zones


 HOW TO CHOOSE AN AWS REGION?
    If you need to launch a new application, where should you do it?
    Its depends on:
       COMPLIANCE: Compliance requirements with data governance and legal requirements: data never leaves a region without your explicit permission
       PROXIMITY: Proximity to customers: lower latency or reduced latency( means to increase the speed of data transfer, if most of the users resides in
        american continent, then you should choose a region in the US, suppose user resides in australia and you deployed in US region they
        may have face lag in accessing the application).
       AVAILABLE SERVICES: Available services within a region: new services and new features aren't available in every region.
       (If you leveraging the application, then you should choose the region where the service is available).
       PRICING: Pricing differences between regions: some regions are more expensive than others.



 AWS Availability Zones
    Each region has many availability     zones  minimum is 3 and maximum is 6
    Each availability zone (AZ) is one or more discrete data cernters with redundant power, networking, and connectivity in an AWS Region.
    Each AZ is isolated, but the AZs in a region are connected through low-latency links.
    AZs are designed to be independent from each other, so that if one AZ goes down, the others can still function.
    They're seperate from each other, so that they're isolated from disasters.
    They're connected with high bandwidth, ultra-low latency network connections.

 AWS Points of Presence(Edge Locations)
    Amazon has 400+ points of presence (PoPs) (400+ Edge locations & 10+ Regional Caches) in 90+ cities across 40+ countries.
    AWS has a global network of edge locations and regional edge caches that deliver content to end users with low latency.
    Edge locations are used for caching content, such as static files, and for serving dynamic content.
    Regional edge caches are used to cache content closer to end users, reducing latency and improving performance.
    AWS CloudFront is the content delivery network (CDN) service that uses these edge locations and regional edge caches to deliver content to end users.
    Content is delivered to end users with lower latency.

 Tour of the AWS Console
    AWS has Global Services:
        Identity and Access Management (IAM)




